- [Instructor] Identifying performance bottlenecks
and troubleshooting requests that resulted in an error
is always a challenge.
Now we're going to learn how to customize trace data,
debug and visualize requests
to optimize Lambda applications with AWS X-Ray.
X-Ray helps you analyze distributed applications
by showing you an end to end view of requests
as they travel through your application.
X-Ray can be easily integrated with Lambda functions.
Once enabled, Lambda trace data
is sent to the X-Ray automatically.
I have already done some invocations
in order to generate some data for us to see.
Let's open the X-Ray service and bring up our service map.
What you can see is the path from the client
to the application.
Lambda records two segments
which creates two nodes on the service map.
The first node represents the Lambda service
that receives the invocation request.
The second node is recorded by the function's runtime.
Selecting one of the components
brings up the service details like name, type,
response distribution and much more.
If I select Traces over on the page,
there is a trace list giving you the ability
to look at the service map for specific traces
that occurred in the past.
Keep in mind, the default sampling rate
is fairly conservative,
only recording the first request each second
and 5% of any additional requests.
However, you have the ability to modify
the default sampling rate.
The way X-Ray data is captured is through X-Ray SDK
and X-Ray Daemon.
The X-Ray Daemon is a process that runs on the host machine
that gathers rotary segments and periodically uploads them
to the X-Ray API.
It includes information about incoming HTTP requests
or downstream services using the AWS SDK, HTTP clients
or SQL Connections.
For Lambda function, you don't need to include
X-Ray SDK as dependency
as we already saw our service map will still show
incoming requests, LM the nodes.
However, you won't be able to see any custom information
that your function makes to the other resources
and services.
If you choose to include X-Ray SDK,
you will be able to provide more granular timing information
around specific lines of code
which can be very helpful
when it comes to troubleshooting any issues.
Let's customize Hello World Lambda
by adding information about external call
that checks the IP of the host machine.
If you look at X-Ray documentation,
there are multiple submodules split by use case.
So, depending on what you're tracing,
you would use a specific submodule
to keep your project size small.
In our case, core library is enough.
Let's scope with the POM configuration and dependency
in our POM XML
and refresh Maven.
Now, we can extend behavior of Hello World app
by creating new subsegment with subsegment subsegment equals
AWS X-Ray. begin subsegment calling external service.
When you create the subsegment for a call,
a segment must already be available for the SDK
to create the subsegment,
which in this case, AWS Lambda,
will create the initial segment for us.
So, you don't need to worry about that in this case.
However, since our unit test doesn't know
about Lambda environment,
we need to create a segment in there
otherwise it will fail.
Back in our handler after the check IP call,
we need to close the segment with AWS X-Ray. and subsegment.
Beyond creating subsegments,
You can add other custom information to the segment document
as annotations or metadata
which can provide further information and insight
that can be seen in X-Ray Console.
Now, let's update our function.
Once this is done, we can now invoke it.
Back in our X-Ray trace console,
let's make a refresh.
Choose the latest trace.
Notice that now we have additional node
plus time spent on external call.
Now that you know how to include X-Ray SDK,
I would recommend you also check AWS Power Tools Library
as it already comes packed with extra annotations
in tracing data
that can be easily enabled with annotations.